---
title: Day 17
description: Password resetting and another pairing session.
comments: true
layout: post
---
Most of my day today was spent working on getting my app to send an email once a user requested a password reset. I originally tried to have it function by sending the user a new temporary password that they could then change once logged in, but, after some frustration in getting that to work, I decided to send them a password reset link instead so that I could follow the RailsCast tutorial [here](http://railscasts.com/episodes/274-remember-me-reset-password). After refactoring my code, however, I still wasn't able to get it working for quite a while. I kept running into errors when trying to send my emails through Gmail, either due to authentication issues or timeouts when sending. 

The error, as usual, turned out to be much simpler than I realized, though I'm still not entirely sure why it wouldn't work. To get `Action Mailer` to work with Gmail, you have to set `config.action_mailer.smtp_settings` to something like:

~~~
address:              'smtp.gmail.com',
port:                 587,
domain:               'example.com',
user_name:            <your username>,
password:             <your password>,
authentication:       :plain,`
enable_starttls_auto: true
~~~

However, since I didn't want to just save a password in plain text in a file that would get committed to my repo, I specified my username and password as environment variables, hoping to access them like `ENV['user_name']`. Unfortunately, while my code was accepting them as valid---meaning no errors were thrown---they were being interpreted as the correct values, which unfortunately took me a while to figure out. Eventually, I took them out and tested the original strings, which ended up working. Since I still didn't feel like committing a password to Github, I ended up storing them in my `secrets.yml` file, which, if added to your `.gitignore`, allows sensitive data to remain private (at least, within your machine) while accessible via something like `Rails.application.secrets.gmail_username`. Once I figured this out, my password reset functionality was finished aside from testing.

Once I got that done with, I had a great pairing session with Chris to refactor my user authentication code from last week, which both ZP and I agreed remained a little odd. With Chris' help, I was able to refactor my code in a much more logical manner while picking up some Vim tips and general good programming practices.

Tomorrow, I'll finish up a little more refactoring with Chris and hopefully get my password reset functionality merged, which should let me start on adding threaded comments.
