---
title: Day 38
description: More jumping around on Winsome.
layout: post
comments: true
---
Continuing the trend of the last several days, I worked on a fair number of different things today. I put up PR for two branches: one that affected `bets#new` and `bets#show` and was mostly centered around properly uploading and displaying bet images and a second branch that moved most of the methods in `ApplicationController` to different concerns. I intended to merge the second one in once I was finished with it, which ended up backfiring---I had forgotten that I had (intentionally) branched off of my other feature branch rather than `master`, so, when I merged in this refactor, it accidentally merged in several other files and commits that I was waiting for feedback on. To fix this, Github suggested another pull request to undo the erroneous one, which I did. This ended up being a pain later because rebasing off of the updated master caused my feature branch changes to be overwritten. Luckily, it wasn't anything too bad.

After getting those two branches properly added to `origin/master` and `heroku/master`, I worked on refactoring our tests that have grown obsolete due to the many changes we've made in the past several days. By the end of the day, I got several of the feature specs completely working again (including adding additional tests to account for the changes we've made). I also added a couple of Issues I've encountered to Github and uploaded Janice's favicon, which adds a nice touch. Tomorrow, I'll finish up refactoring the tests and start knocking out more of our Github Issues, which should start adding up soon, as the QA process is officially starting.
