---
title: Day 43 - Bug squashing
description: Slayer of bugs
comments: true
layout: post
---
Today turned out to be very productive---from what I can tell, I managed to knock out the three biggest bugs that Winsome was facing (all with some great help from @zporter): bet deadlines not properly respecting time zone differences, bet images on Heroku not being persisted and some past bet opponents not showing up on the stats page.

The first bug was largely fixed last night with some help from @pk-nb and @efatsi. Today, the remaining changes all dealt with how `Bet.end_at` were displayed in the views. I managed to get those ironed out pretty quickly, but I still had a little bit of trouble getting the `update` action working properly. After some advisement from ZP, I moved over some of my time zone logic to a `before_validation` method in the `Bet` model, which cleaned things up and fixed my issue.

Bug #2 was pretty straightforward due to Zachary's code being just what the app needed. After a couple of minor hiccups---it's difficult to test expected production behavior when you forget to push to Heroku---everything seems to be working just as expected.

The last bug was the one that I expected to be most painful since I still don't have a great grasp on some of Nathanael's stats code. Fortunately, the first file that I decided to read in-depth turned out to be the one responsible for the bug, and---even more fortunately---it didn't have to deal with his beastly SQL query [here](https://github.com/vigetlabs/winsome/blob/master/app/models/bet_opponent_history.rb#L85). After ZP and I worked through it for a while, we managed to figure out a way to take advantage of the `participating_bets` associated I previously made for `Users` and simplify the `Friends` model, which (I think) fixes the issue). If I'm understanding it correctly, `Friends` were defined to be the distinct `Users` who had previously picked the same answer in a bet as the `current_user`. Now, `Friends` should be the list of `Users` that have participated in at least one `Bet` in common with the `current_user`.

Hopefully, Nathanael will be able to verify tomorrow that both the first and third issues are also resolved for him. If that's the case, we should be able to knock out some less pressing Issues and dedicate some time to cleaning up our portions of the Winsome Labshare before our second runthrough tomorrow afternoon.
