---
title: Day 25
description: First day of Winsome coding!
comments: true
layout: post
---
After many meetings and standups, I finally got to work on coding for Winsome for the first time today. I started off the morning tinkering around with [OmniAuth Twitter](https://github.com/arunagw/omniauth-twitter) by following [this RailsCast](http://railscasts.com/episodes/241-simple-omniauth), which was pretty fun and productive. I did run into an odd error where I was trying to run `rails g model User ... ` on a branch in my local Winsome repo, and I kept getting a message saying the file already existed when it really didn't. Turns out, Spring was trying to generate the new files in my Hacker News clone's directory, where a `User` model did exist (like [this SO post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/23165506/rails-spring-breaking-generators) describes). Luckily, Zachary managed to figure it out and help me get it fixed.

Immediately following a successful standup, Nathanael and I paired on the Twitter auth stuff for the rest of the afternoon, which went very well. We ended up following a guide that Nathanael found [here](http://richonrails.com/articles/sending-a-tweet-to-twitter#.U8Q5Ao1dVX5), which was a little more current than the RailsCast and also covered sending a Tweet in addition to authorization. It's really interesting how we've each been working on essentially the same project for the past several weeks but have learned different things about Rails, so it was great being able to learn from his experiences while sharing some of my own. We ended up having a really productive session and managed to work with Helen a bit about refactoring some of her code to follow Rails standards, get the authentication working with the awesome login page that Helen made based off of Janice's design, create our `User` model and post a Tweet by clicking a link. To finish the day off, we also added some Issues to the Winsome Github page, which will help us work in parallel in the coming days. 
