---
title: Day 30
description: Winsome is live!
comments: true
layout: post
---
[Winsome is officially live](http://winsome.herokuapp.com/)! After a lot of great feedback, I managed to merge in the branch I was working on at the end of last week, which added the the Bet `#index`, `#show`, `#edit` and `#update` actions. Users can now log in via a Twitter account, view a list of their owned bets, view individual pages for any bet---regardless of the creator---and edit their bets. In addition to the `#create` action from a previous merge, Winsome is pretty well on its way to being functional. In the next few days, Nathanael will have bet invitations finished and move onto statistics, whereas I'll start working on the actual bet participation.

To make sure we're on the same page, Nathanael and I paired on two new models, `BetChoices` and `BetPicks`, which represent the options for a bet and the user choices for a bet, respectively. Nathanael is currently hard at work finishing up some edits on these two models based on some great dev feedback, which'll allow us to get working right away tomorrow morning.

The last major development of the day was a change to the app's design that Janice recently came up with. Rather than simply clicking a link to go through the different stages in bet participation, there will now be a drawer that will pull up to go from the bet details page (aka the `bet#show` view) right into the list of choices for the bet. This will make things a little more complicated on my end, but it'll be really valuable experience. Hopefully it won't be too difficult to figure out!
