---
title: Day 19 - PR 2 Electric Boogaloo
description: Two pull requests up and the first merge conflict of the project.
comments: true
layout: post
---
Yesterday after work, a bunch of us went down to [the Parlour](https://theparlourdurham.com/) to hang out and help Janice and I rack up another point on the summer scram, which was a lot of fun (flavors of the day included corn, beet and tea cake). This morning, I worked on finished up testing for the methods located in `application.rb`, which turned out to be a great learning experience. Between finishing that up and finishing my `ActionMailer` tests yesterday, I actually had two pull requests active at once, but---thanks to Eli, Pat and Lawson---I managed to get it down to one pretty quickly. Pat also suggested that I refactor my `password_reset_token` to be its own class in order to eliminate it from the database, which I thought was a great idea.

To start work on refactoring my `password_reset_token`, I wanted to rebase my `password-reset` branch with the updates to `master` from merging my authentication changes. This ended up leading to my first merge conflict of the project, which fortunately ended up being pretty easy to deal with. Now that it's merged, I hopefully won't have too hard of a time getting the refactor done.

While I was waiting for feedback from the devs, I decided to revisit my blog for a little bit. The most noticeable changes are definitely to the home page, which now has a different presentation of the most recent posts and a slightly different color scheme. The less obvious changes are that I got around to rolling in [Jemoji](https://github.com/jekyll/jemoji) (:golf:) and [Jekyll Mentions](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-mentions) (@andycandrea).

The downside is that I didn't manage to merge in the password reset feature nor get started on adding threaded comments. Since it looks like my plans will be rained out this weekend, I might see if I can get a little of my backlog finished up over the weekend.
