---
title: Day 26
description: On to bet creation!
layout: post
comments: true
---
This morning, I worked on finishing up the tests that Nathanael wrote last night for signing in via Twitter. It took me longer than I expected due to the fact that the code that we had written seemed not to be working on my machine. After a while, we figured out that it was due to the fact that I had been trying to sign in as the Twitter account associated with our app, which Twitter apparently didn't like and thus had us continually redirecting to its sign in page. After figuring that out, Zach and I paired on it for a little while, which got the branch ready for more feedback.

While waiting on our second :+1:, I started working on bet creation. I managed to get the `new` and `create` actions working pretty quickly and then spent the rest of the afternoon writing some views, validations and tests, as well as familiarizing myself more with [Slim](slim-lang.com), which Nathanael and Helen have been using. Tomorrow, I need to figure out how to modify the placeholder value in a `simple_form_for` for a `datetime` field---my intution of doing something like `f.input :the_date_column, placeholder: Time.now + 1.hour` didn't work and a quick Google search didn't make anything quickly apparent---as well as rewriting my `Bet` tests to work with my new requirement that a user must be signed in to create a bet. After I can get those done, I'll be ready to submit a PR and start work on the `index`, `show` and `edit` actions for the bets. 
