---
title: Day 14 - Bug Hunting
description: I ran into my first major bug of the internship.
layout: post
comments: true
---

First thing this morning, I got to work on refactoring my authentication process per some great suggestions I got from Pat on my most recent pull request, which required setting up a new `session` class and moving some of my logic from my `session_helper` module over to my `User` model. Everything seemed to be going fairly well---though I did expect to have to do a little bit of refactoring once I ran my tests, as usual---but I ended up with a completely broken login process once I finished. I wasn't able to figure out what was going wrong just from my test output, so I put in a couple print statements to analyze the state of my program at different points.

After inserting the print statements and fixing what errors were evident from the results of my failed tests, I was able to determine that my new authentication code was breaking when trying to set the `current_user` instance variable for my `session` object. Specifically, when trying to look up the `User` whose `remember_token` digest was the same as the digest of the `remember_token` saved in my cookie, I was getting a `nil` `User` on all but the first lookup. While I didn't manage to fix it today, I do have the offending code isolate and managed to confirm that the rest of my refactored code works fine by commenting out only the broken section of my new code and replacing it with the appropriate code from my previous commit. I'm planning to see if Zachary or one of the other devs will have some time tomorrow to help me figure out a fix, and---more importantly---why my current code isn't working.

In addition to that, the rest of the interns and I had our last orientation session with Paul and a whirlwind standup where we started to make some considerable changes to a lot of our original plans for Winsome. It looks like a lot of the development work will end up being on the front end, so Nathanael and I will likely end up helping out Helen where we can, which should prove interesting.
