---
title: Day 31
description: Slow going on the new branch
layout: post
comments: true
---

I started work on the pick selection feature on Winsome today. Pretty quickly, I ran into some trouble with trying to create a Simple Form for the `answer` column for the `BetOptions` table. To match with our designs---and generally how we want our app to work---I wanted to allow the user to pick from a list of preexisting options for that bet or make their own. To do so, I thought the best way would be to make a collection of preexisting answers that could be selected via radio buttons with the final element of said collection being a radio button with a text field rather than some simple text.

Unfortunately, that turned out to be considerably more complicated than I expected. After trying a few different routes, I decided to pair with ZP on the issue. After filling him in on what I wanted to do, we decided to make a new model that could handle all the necessary logic and simple tie the form to it, rather than `BetOption`. This will allow the form to have two separate input fields, which can then be checked in the model to either ensure that only one is filled in or assign priority to one field if both are filled. After pairing for a few hours, we managed to get a basic version of the model and controller fleshed out, which we're planning to submit to the other devs for feedback to see if they like how we're approaching the problem. I'm curious to see what everyone's opinions will be.

Tomorrow, I'll keep working on my stuff from today, though I may change it up based on some feedback. Hopefully, the approach will get sorted out quickly enough so that I'm able to move on to the views, which should go much more quickly.
