---
title: Day 16
description: Finished up week 2; on to week 3!
comments: true
layout: post
---

First thing this morning, I had a check-in with Chris since Zach is on PTO. After making plans to pair at some point this week, I got to work on finishing up my last week 2 assignment: pagination. I wasn't able to find much of anything online about implementing pagination in Rails without using either [will_paginate](https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate) or [Kaminari](https://github.com/amatsuda/kaminari). While both looked like great tools that I'd normally be happy to use, I want to do as much of this project as possible without using pre-written code to maximize the amount that I learn. Knowing that he was a little bit ahead of me, I decided to check out what Nathanael did, which turned out to be a good decision. By pulling only a page's worth of articles from his database, he was able to write a few helper methods to accomplish pagination in a pretty concise manner (so, Nathanael, if you're reading this, props to you!). To compare how our respective codes turned out, check out the corresponding pull requests from [me](https://github.com/andycandrea/hnews/pull/20/files) and [him](https://github.com/pk-nb/haxxor_news/pull/18/files) (some of Nathanael's relevant code may have changed since this particular snapshot, FYI). In addition to pagination, I also added the necessary code for the `show` action on `Articles` in preparation of adding commenting this week.

In addition to that work and a few meetings, I spent the rest of the day working on adding the ability to reset a user password on my app. So far, I have the `edit` and `update` actions working for `Users` and have been working on an `ActionMailer` to send a temporary password to a user's email if they forget their password. To get that working, I'll have to figure out a way to update the `password_digest` field in my `Users` table. So far, I haven't seen a conclusive way to pass a new password to `has_secure_password`, but I have a few ideas that I expect to work. After all, I already have the ability to update the `password_digest` via a form that a logged in user can submit, so it can't be much worse than going through the same process sans form.
