---
title: Day 41
layout: post
comments: true
description: Time zones suck.
---
Once again, I managed to forget to write my blog post yesterday, so this'll be another two-in-one.

Yesterday, I finally finished refactoring all of our tests (and writing several new ones), which was really nice to get done---useful tests are much better than useless ones (surprise, surprise). I also started work on fixing up the last of the time zone issues that Nathanael had found, which turned out to be much more difficult than I expected and led into today.

My day today was a lot of jumping back and forth between working on the intern presentation and fixing up the time zone issues from yesterday, which was a bit frustrating because it was difficult to get into the right groove on either when I kept having to switch gears. We got a lot of great feedback on the practice presentation, though I'm a little worried about going into much more depth on the demo since we're already pushing it for time. Afterwards, I kept working on getting the time zone stuff figured out and ran into one of the most frustrating bugs that I've yet encountered in this internship. Whenever I would try to save a `Bet` with an `end_at` value set, the value would always get saved to the database as `nil`. I tried everything that I could think of---both sensible and otherwise---but I just could not get the bug ironed out.

After banging my head against my computer for a while, Nathanael and I Screenhero'd to talk about an issue that I discovered with statistics that he was having some trouble nailing down. One quick chat later, he realized that the issue was with the bets that had been made several iterations of the application ago, which contained some bad data. After he figured that out, I had him look at the time zone issues I was running into. Unfortunately, we still couldn't figure it out.

Luckily, one of Viget's best and brightest former interns came to the rescue: Eli jumped into our Screenhero session, and, after talking through it for a while, suggested removing a line that I'd added to `config/application.rb` after seeing it on a StackOverflow post: `config.active_record.default_timezone = 'UTC'`. Unfortunately, I didn't notice that one of the comments on that particular answer specified how the that method eventually changed to only accept `:utc` and `:local` or another comment that stated `config.active_record.default_timezone` became deprecated in Rails 3.2.13. Usually, I'm pretty good at checking the API for any method calls I don't recognize (or at least the date of the post to get an idea of what Rails version is being referred to). This'll definitely teach me to be even better about it.

Tomorrow, I have a few time zone things left to finish; then I should be able to start work on additional Issues.
