---
layout: post
title: How I Got Caught
date: 2016-07-28 21:33:00
published: true
comments: true
tags: how i got caught memories college
---

When my second year of high school finished and my older sister began touring
colleges, there was a noticeable shift in the discussions surrounding my and my
sister's lives. Up to that point, our lives were measured in report cards, band
concerts and soccer games. Suddenly, these milestones felt almost childish in
comparison to the lofty phrases like "setting yourself up for the future" and
"figuring out what you want to do with your life" that were being thrown around.

By the time it was my turn to apply for college, I had heard all the typical
advice twice over: make sure to have a backup school, spend extra time to craft
your applications thoughtfully, get trusted reviewers to look over your essays,
and, of course, consider your choices carefully. After all, those applications
were _expensive_—to say nothing of the financial or temporal cost of wasting
time at the wrong school. All in all, I think I leveraged this advice well and
ended up with a set of sensible applications to a sensible number of sensible
schools that I chose for sensible reasons—except for one.

The University of Chicago is a phenomenal school. It has superb academics, great
financial aid and beautiful architecture; conveniently, it's even located a
short train ride away from my childhood home. I didn't want to attend in the
slightest.

Sure, I would have been proud to get into such a prestigious school, and, under
the right circumstances, I may even have matriculated, but I really didn't want
to stay in the Midwest for college or spend four years in a rather less than
ideal area in a giant city. I'd like to say that I applied for a respectable
reason like walking in the footsteps of Carl Sagan and Edwin Hubble, but my true
reason was almost as silly as wanting to eat in the [Hogwartian dining
hall](http://www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/Chicagos-Own-Hogwarts-Harry-Potter-University-of-Chicago.html):
I wanted to write their admissions essay.

Each year, the University of Chicago petitions their students for [creative
essay topics](https://collegeadmissions.uchicago.edu/apply/essay-questions) that
are included in their undergraduate admissions application. Partly because I
like a good challenge and partly due to a newfound love of writing—thanks Mr.
Monday!—I really wanted to take a crack at whatever UChi could throw at me.

Not knowing what to expect, I finished the Common App and the supplements for my
other schools; that way, I surmised, I wouldn't have any higher priority
applications hanging over my head while I worked on the fun stuff. When I
finally clicked through to that Chicago's essay, I was greeted by a prompt short
enough to start a haiku:

*How did you get caught?*[^1]

I was relieved that the prompt wasn't entirely open-ended, but I was also a
little disappointed: it seemed _easy_. I surprised myself with how quickly I
came up with an answer and wrote about how I got "caught" by music and very
suddenly transitioned from owner of a single Aaron Carter CD to a melomaniac and
collector of old records. I even went out on a limb and put my iPod on shuffle
and wrote a brief blurb about how the first few songs had caught me in their own
unique ways.

I had a great deal of fun writing that essay (and even more fun attending a
school that was _not_ the University of Chicago!), but I got wrapped up in my
impending graduation and forgot about it rather quickly. Now that I'm finally
taking my writing skills (or lack thereof) out for another spin with this blog,
I've noticed that it was a much better prompt than I had originally realized.

Revisiting this prompt has reminded me of all the many ways I've been "caught"
in the past six years. From Southern biscuits, strawberry black pepper ice cream
and bourbon cream to board games, comic books and new Disney movies to swing
dancing, long walks and new friends, I've been captivated by quite a number of
wonderful things since I submitted that less than sensible application to the
University of Chicago. Thank you, Kelly Kennedy, University of Chicago Class of
2010,[^2] for your wonderful prompt—six years later, it's allowed me to revisit
some of my fondest memories under a new lens, and that's something I'm truly
grateful for.

---
[^1]: Okay, technically the whole prompt was _How did you get caught? (Or not caught, as the case may be)_, but, hey, poetic license.
[^2]: See [here](https://collegeadmissions.uchicago.edu/apply/essay/past-essay-questions) for the attribution.
