---
layout: post
title: That Old Wisconsin Feeling, Part I
date: 2016-04-12 23:36:00
published: true
comments: true
tags: life
---

Whenever someone in the Triangle finds out that I was born and raised in a
relatively rural area in Wisconsin, it seems like his or her first reaction is
to think of what I must've had in short supply while growing up: shops within
walking distance of home, public transportation or--the real kicker--number of
days in a year I could go outside without fear of frostbite.

What most people who are used to being able to walk to the grocery store don't
realize, however, are the things that Wisconsin has in abundance (well, except
for cheese--I swear that some people down here think the reason that Wisconsin
developed a cheese named "brick" is so that we could build small cities with
it).

One memory that's stuck with me for the majority of my time in the South
occurred during my first semester of college at Carolina. I'd gone for a walk
around campus, and, right as I was about to cross Stadium Drive near Carmichael
dorm, I realized that, for the first time in almost a year, it truly felt like
fall.  The air was cool and dry, the sun hung low in the afternoon sky, and I
was about to enjoy one of my favorite autumn traditions: the first time in
months that I'd get to take a deep breath of fall air. Since fall--or, at least
the feeling of fall--starts considerably later in the year in North Carolina
than it does in Wisconsin, I was felt that this moment was quite overdue.

Back in Wisconsin, the autumn air has an almost drug-like quality. The
temperature is completely perfect: cold enough to refresh but not cold enough
to chill. Between the humid summer giving way to a bone-dry Northern winter and
the relatively pristine freshness of my native environment, the air is so crisp
that it actually develops an almost physical bite. I don't think that I really
have the words to do it justice, but take my word: it's refreshing, it tastes
*wonderful*, and it's just enough to give me a big, goofy smile whenever I get
the chance to experience it.

As I was standing there on campus, I was fully anticipating that exact same
feeling; after all, I'd never experienced fall outside of the Midwest. What I
got, however, was complete and utter disappointment.

To give you an idea of what I experienced, imagine your favorite crispy food,
whether it be a potato chip, cracker or wafer. Now imagine that you haven't had
a chance to eat this particular treat in the better part of a year, and, rather
unexpectedly, you come to realize you happen to have a nearly inexhaustible
supply within grasp. You grab the first one, you go to take a bite...

...And you find that your usually crispy delight feels like it's been soaked in
tepid, stagnant water for an hour. It's not just that it tastes bad--it's that
it *feels* entirely ***wrong***. Instead of that satisfying *crunch* you were so
eagerly awaiting, you get mush.

Seriously, imagine a mushy, lukewarm potato chip. It's disgusting, and it's
exactly how the air felt and tasted in that moment.

Gross.

I really don't expect to live there again, but, if given the opportunity, I'd
never choose to skip out on being a born and bred Wisconsinite. While, sure, it
would've been nice to have less than eight months of winter growing up, and,
yeah, the difficulty of developing plans with your friends who lived forty-five
minutes away from each other was a bit of a pain, there are a bunch of things
about growing up in Wisconsin that I could never give up--especially those deep
breaths of autumn air.
