---
layout: post
title: Book Review — "Life of Pi" by Yann Martel
date: 2016-05-16 17:44:00
published: true
comments: true
excerpt: When I first saw the trailer for cinematic adaptation of "Life of Pi", I had never heard of Yann Martel, much less his award-winning novel. In fact...
tags: life of pi yann martel book review
---

> Then the elderly man said, "I have a story that will make you believe in God."

---
When I first saw the trailer for the cinematic adaptation of *Life of Pi*, I had
never heard of Yann Martel, much less his award-winning novel. My first reaction
was actually confusion: how could a movie be successful if it's just about a kid
and a tiger on a boat? As time passed, the details of the trailer faded from
memory, yet I couldn't quite manage to forget about *Life of Pi* entirely.

It was a quiet evening during my penultimate semester at UNC when I finally got
the chance to watch *Life of Pi* for the first time. I was alone in my
apartment, my only company a bottle of wine and a very domesticated (and very
spoiled!) miniature tiger.

As the opening credits began—accompanied by fantastic music, I might add—I
wondered to myself what kind of film I was settling in for: would it be a
harrowing story of survival as man struggles to overcome a savage predator and
the very forces of nature simultaneously? Or would it perhaps be an uplifting
tale and detail how a young boy and his furry, feline friend manage to help each
other in their mutual time of need?

I suppose that it could be argued that neither hypothesis was *entirely* wrong.
The reality, though, was so much more profound and nuanced than I could ever
have expected—I truly can't imagine another film impacting or moving me so. I
knew then that I had to read the book; now, I have.

---

## The Good :tiger:

*Life of Pi* recounts a story "that will make you believe in God." It could,
then, be considered a failure on either the part of Yann Martel as the author or
myself as the reader that my beliefs on the subject have not changed. Perhaps
that's even the case; it is not, however, my opinion.

*Spoilers ahead.*

At the end of the book, the reader is presented with two stories explaining the
same series of events and led to believe that one is accurate. The two
stories have a good deal in common: both share the same settings, and both are
filled with sadness.

Even though both stories are tragic, one is considerably more bleak. The
horrible events that so impacted our protagonist had no meaning, happening as a
result of either circumstance or the extreme inattentiveness and brutality of
man. Pi's survival, meanwhile, is partially due to his own brutishness and
largely due to dumb luck—if you can call anyone in his situation "lucky".
Little about this story is fanciful; each detail is entirely possible, though
most anyone would wish that such things had never happened.

In the second story, Pi's suffering is provided greater meaning: we're shown a
world in which his pains are not random but perhaps part of a greater, perhaps
even divine, plan. Unlike in the first story, Pi does not suffer alone. His
companion is powerful and difficult—impossible, even—to understand. Pi often
fears his shipmate—who wouldn't?—but remains respectful, and the two come to
develop a symbiotic relationship.

The noteworthy events from the first story are present in the second, but
they're told in very different ways. The results of some horrific events from
the other story do remain conveniently mysterious, however—it seems that only
an omniscient being could know the truth. Meanwhile, Pi's own actions can still
be brutal like in the first story, but they are noticeably less horrific: when
he breaks his vegetarianism to survive, he is regretful and refuses to forget
the lives he takes, continually thanking and praying for the fish he consumes.
In this way, Pi's actions have a sort of nobility rather than simple
desperation. Throughout the story, Pi is provided for via storms of flying fish
or a fantastic island refuge replete with food and water. With such fantastic
luck, it must be that a greater being is looking out for Pi; if that's the case,
are his choices to break his own morals not more justified and validated?

In life, we all go through times of difficulty, despair and heartbreak. True,
few of our troubles will be on the same magnitude as those of Piscine Molitor
Patel, but that doesn't change the fact that each of us still have our own
trials to face. Some of these challenges help us grow and shape us into people
we can be proud to be. Others, though, are not nearly as romantic—even in
hindsight.

In my personal life, it's these latter experiences that are hard to shake. I
find myself constantly searching for meaning or a silver lining behind these
misfortunes; in some cases, I can't find an answer even years later.

After reading *Life of Pi*, I can imagine a world where all misery serves a
purpose. The suffering caused by depression would be a learning experience; the
death of a loved one would be part of a supreme cosmic plan. Even if my
adversity did not provide me benefit, I could take comfort in knowing that it
was necessary in a grander scheme. I could be reassured by the presence of some
great being who holds the power to right the fate of the universe if it were to
tip too far out of balance. Even though I don't believe this world is a reality,
I can see its immense appeal.

*Life of Pi* did not make me believe in God. *Life of Pi* made me understand
the belief in God.

## The Neutral :neutral_face:

The movie, at times, could be rather difficult to watch; the fate of Orange
Juice the orangutan, for example, lacked any enjoyable elements. The book,
however, is considerably more gruesome. Unlike *A Song of Ice and Fire*[^1],
which I personally feel is filled with gratuitous violence for no other purpose
than the shock factor, I do find that the brutal elements of *Life of Pi* do
contribute to the book as a whole. They do not, however, make it any easier to
read.

## The Bad :frowning:

When I'm reading a book for the first time, I'm far from an active critic. Sure,
I might notice a few sections that I take some issue with—moreso with
non-fiction—but the critical portion of my brain doesn't kick into high gear
until I no longer feel wrapped up in the book's world or topic. With less
enjoyable literature, this may occur within the first few chapters; typically,
it occurs once I've read a book's final word.

There are two books, though, that have never entirely let me go: *Flowers for
Algernon* was the first, and, now, *Life of Pi* is the second. I don't know that
I'll ever feel entirely finished with either, and, as such, I really can't think
of noteworthy criticism.

Even though I can't come up with anything negative about the book, I will say,
that *Life of Pi* the movie does follow the usual trend of being inferior to its
written source. While it's easily one of my favorite films, I feel that its
differences serve only to dull the story. They do, however, make it easier to
consume.

## The Verdict :tiger2:

Perhaps it's no surprise given my lack of criticism, but I have to give *Life of
Pi* a complete five stars out of five.

---

#### Footnotes

[^1]: For anyone unfamiliar, this is George R.R. Martin's series that starts with *Game of Thrones*.
