---
layout: post
title: "How to Win Friends and Influence People"
date: 2016-06-04 18:50:00
published: true
comments: true
tags: how to win friends and influence people in the digital age dale carnegie book review
---

Whenever I come across a list of books that are "guaranteed to change your
life", two works are invariably near the top: *Ishmael* by Daniel Quinn and *How
to Win Friends and Influence People* by Dale Carnegie. Having heard nothing but
praise for each of these titles, I finally found the time to add them to my
reading list and finished both last month.

Even after seeing it recommended for years, I hesitated to pick up *How to Win
Friends and Influence People*. The title sounded like a nice way of saying *How
to Get What You Want and Manipulate People*—not a topic that overly interests
me. Since *Ishmael* seemed to have a reasonable amount in common with [my most
recently completed book](lifeofpi), though, I finally decided to give Carnegie's
classic a shot, opting for the most recent adaptation of the original—*How to Win
Friends and Influence People in the Digital Age*—thinking that it would be
more relevant to my day-to-day life than the decades-old original.

I'm happy to say that my misgivings were incorrect. Rather than offering tactics
in manipulation, Carnegie and his associates stressed the importance of
cooperation and achieving one's goals by helping others or, at the very least,
treating them with respect. The book also focuses on observation and listening
to others. Through these means, it's possible to give others what they desire
and need, which tends to have the fortuitous side effect of increasing your
standing with that person.

This advice has natural applications in the professional world—ensuring that
your employees are happy and have the environment and tools necessary for peak
performance is a great way to increase the productivity of your business.
Unfortunately, this meant that I was a bit outside of the target audience.
That's not to say, though, that this book has no application in personal life;
being an effective listener and observing your loved ones' desires and needs is
vital to be a positive impact upon the lives of your friends and families (and
who doesn't strive for that?). Remembering the humanity of the people behind a
business that overcharged you or recognizing that accomplishments mean so much
more than getting the credit for those accomplishments are also incredibly
valuable and relevant to everyday life.

This book is chock-full of valuable insights and perspectives. If you've already
spent a great deal of time and effort thinking about how to make others happy,
though, this book may seem somewhat redundant. Had I read it about five years
ago, I personally would have gained much more; as it stood, I had encountered a
good number of the points that Carnegie raises on my own by the time I finally
picked it up. That said, I did encounter several perspectives through reading
this book that I had not previously considered, and I gained a deeper
understanding of why some things work while others fall flat.

To summarize, I feel that this was a surprisingly wonderful book that is well
worth the read even if the content itself is not particularly surprising. At
times, however, it concentrates too much for my needs on the world of business.
As such, I give *How to Win Friends and Influence People in the Digital Age*
four stars out of five.
